## Week Four Recap

### Instructions
Fork this repository. Answer the questions to the best of your ability.

Try to answer them with limited amount of external research. These questions cover the majority of what we've learned this week.

Note: When you're done, submit a PR with a reflection in the comments about how this exercise went for you.

### Questions

* What is a cookie?
Data that's generated by a web site and stored on the machine to identify them whenever they visit

* What’s the difference between a session and a cookie?
A session is a cookie that's been hashed

* What’s a flash and when do you want to use flashes?
A message that can be displayed after an action is taken. I'd use flashes to tell a user whether the action they tried to complete was successful or not. Also, I'd like to warn them whenever they're trying to do something that will change the database (updating or deleting).

* Why do people say “HTTP is stateless”?
HTTP is called stateless because we don't have to keep track of a session for our users to view pages on our site

* What’s authentication? Explain.
Authentication is identifying a user. For example, whenever they visit our site we can generate a cookie that corresponds with their IP address so that we can identify them anytime they come back.

* What’s the difference between authentication and authorization?
Authentication identifies who a user is while authorization determines what they're allowed to see

* What’s a before filter?
An action that's taken before another piece of code is executed. For example, we can define a method that does something and then make sure that it gets executed before executing an action that needs that piece of code to be run first. We can also use it before our test suite runs to clean our database.

* How do we keep track of a user once they’ve logged in?
We create a session whenever they log in and then use that session to identify them as they browse our site

* When do you want to namespace a resource? When do you want to nest a resource? What's the differences between those two approaches?
It might be good to namespace whenever a user is accessing a page as an admin or as a user. It's usually good to nest a resource whenever there is a 1-many relationship.

Namespace: admin/categories/1
Nesting: admin/1/categories/1

* At a high level, what tools can you use to implement authorization? How would you use them?
We could use enums and cookies/sessions to implement authorization. We'd assign a role to a user such as user and admin. From there, anytime that a user tries to visit a page we would check whether they have an active session and whether their role permits them to view that page.

* What's an enum, and what advantages does it offer? What data type needs to be in your database to use an enum? Where do you declare an enum?
An enum is a data type that has constants that we define ourselves. It has built in methods that tell us about a model (a user for example) without having to create those methods ourselves. I believe that an enum needs to be declared as an integer in our database because numbers will correspond with each constant that we set. An enum is declared within the model.

* What are some strategies you can use to keep your views DRY?
We can use POROs so that our views aren't doing too much work and then we can just call a method from the view instead. We can also move output that we want on multiple views to application layout so that we don't have to repeat it.
